We've looked at the execution context, but before we can start looking at examples, we and we will
look at an example in this actual lecture.
You need to understand a stack because remember how said with a functional execution context, it can
be more than one lane.
It brings in questions about what is a stack and how does it work.
So that's what this brief explanation is about what is an execution stack when it's just a stack, a
list.
It's a list of all the execution contexts that have been created.
The execution stack is known as a calling stack in other languages, so it's awesome is that once you've
nailed this down, you'll be able to understand other languages work as well.
Now, in the engine runs through your code.
It creates a global execution context.
We've already seen this, and when the engine finds a function, it creates a new execution context.
In particular, it creates a functional execution context, and it will push this execution context
to the top of the stack.
And then the JavaScript engine will execute the function whose execution context is at the top of the
stack.
This makes sense, but nothing makes more sense than what's an example.
So let's have a look.
Let's start by saying we've got some JavaScript code.
But before it's even run, let's just say it's even an empty file.
What's going to happen?
Well, that's right.
A global execution context will be created.
And what will this word refer to?
Yes, this will be bound to the global execution context.
This is very intuitive.
It's very simple, right?
It's why I don't need all these fancy words and executions.
Decks and contexts intimidate you once you've got it.
It's actually quite simple.
We just need to look at it piece by piece.
Okay, and now let's write out a function.
We're going to call our function one within function one.
We in a log a statement then, and this is where it's going to get a bit tricky.
We're going to execute another function called to scene.
After that, we're going to console.log another statement.
What's going to happen at this point in terms of execution stakes?
Well, nothing, because nothing needs to be executed.
We've only defined the function here.
Remember, we haven't executed dysfunction.
OK, let's get onto function to then function, too is just going to console.log a statement.
What's going to happen in terms of execution contexts?
Well, that's right.
Nothing.
Why?
Because we haven't invoked our function.
We've just defined it once again.
OK, so at this point, everything's making seeds and the this keyword are still pointing to the global
execution context.
But let's now execute function one.
This is going to do something now.
What's it going to do?
Well, in function, one is executed.
It's going to create a function execution context.
Remember, we've been through this and it's going to push down the global execution context.
So no one is going to be executed on top of the stack.
So JavaScript is going to run whatever at the very top of the stack.
So the first thing JavaScript is going to do is do what?
Yes, it's going to execute the console.
Don't log statement, then what is it going to do?
Oh, yes, it's going to reach to.
And now it's going to execute function, too.
So what does that mean in terms of execution context?
Yep, you guessed it.
It's going to go to the top of the stack.
Everything else be pushed down.
And remember what it means to be at the top of the stack.
It means that that is the function that JavaScript is going to currently be executing.
So the next step is going to be for what it's right.
It's going to be for JavaScript to execute console dialog.
It's going to run that statement and that statement is complete.
What's going to happen will function Tuesday when it's finished.
So it's going to be thrown off the stack function.
One is at the top of the stack and the JavaScript engine knows exactly where it was before.
So now it's going to go to the console.log statement, its third statement and the that function will
be finished.
That will be done and it'll be thrown off the stack and we're going to be left with the global execution
context.
So if we summarize and take a step back, what console.log statements would you expect to see on the
screen in what order or when it hits function, one that's going to be at the top of the stack that
will be shown, then the console log within function two is going to be locked to the screen because
that is going to now be at the top of the stack.
When function two's finished function, one's going to remain and it's going to continue to execute
and it's going to execute the search console that long, it's hard to expect to see console log one,
console load three and then only console.log to print it to the screen.
Hope this is making sense.
I hope you're having fun, but don't stop.
There's a lot more to learn.